chore: chonk docs (#18587)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: barretenberg/cpp/src/barretenberg/chonk/README.md

# Chonk: Client-side Highly Optimized ploNK

![chonk](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/BkpsblXEgg.jpg)

Aztec's goal is to enable private verifiable execution of smart contracts. This motivates a proving system design where:

- **Low memory proving**: Proofs can be generated on a phone or browser
- **Efficient recursion**: Proofs can incorporate many layers of recursion, as contract execution naturally involves function calls to other functions

Efficient recursion supports low memory proving - statements can be decomposed via recursion into smaller statements that require less prover memory.

**Memory bound**: The prover's peak memory occurs during the first Sumcheck round and is bounded by $1.5 \times \max_i |\text{ProverPolynomials}_i|$, where the max is over all input circuits. Crucially, this bound is independent of the number of circuits being folded.

> *Example*: 55 dense polynomials of size $2^{18}$ consume $1.5 \times 55 \times 2^{18} \times 32\text{ bytes} \approx 660\text{ MB}$ (shifted polynomials share memory with unshifted), which can be used as a rough upper bound for a Mega Circuit RAM footprint during Chonk.

Reviewer: I think that this remark is useful, as is the example below, but it feels like it's thrown at the reader without much preamble. Maybe it's worth moving it to a later point in the README?

## Design Principles

CHONK builds on [PlonK](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/953), sharing its foundation:
- Elliptic curves and pairings
- Circuit constraints via selector polynomials and copy constraints

Its deviations from PlonK are motivated by the goals above:

1. **Proving sequences of circuits**: Contract execution translates to multiple circuits (different contract functions), with Aztec's *Kernel circuits* handling bookkeeping between them. See the [Aztec documentation](https://docs.aztec.network) and [Stackproofs paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1281).

2. **Sumcheck instead of univariate quotienting**: Eliminates FFTs, reducing prover time and memory at the expense of proof length. This approach follows [HyperPlonk](https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1355).

3. **Folding schemes**: Enable cheaper recursion than standard recursive proofs. We use sumcheck-based folding similar to [HyperNova](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/573), well-suited for folding non-uniform PlonK circuits.

> 4. **Goblin Plonk**: Though folding reduces recursion cost, in-circuit non-native EC scalar multiplications remain expensive. [Goblin Plonk](https://hackmd.io/@aztec-network/BkGNaHUJn/%2FdUsu57SOTBiQ4tS9KJMkMQ) (see also [this paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1651)) defers these operations to a queue, then proves them on the Grumpkin curve where they're native. This curve-switch approach was initiated by [BCTV](https://eprint.iacr.org/2014/595.pdf); a modern comparison is [CycleFold](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1192).

Reviewer: The goblin plonk link is broken

*For a video presentation, see [this talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6wlamEPKlE).*

---

## Overview

Chonk implements Repeated Computation with Global state (RCG) as defined in the [Stackproofs paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1281). It combines HyperNova folding with Goblin to produce a single succinct proof.

### RCG vs IVC

Unlike Incrementally Verifiable Computation (IVC), RCG:

- **Deferred proving**: Witness generation for all circuits completes before proving starts
- **Global consistency**: Supports global consistency checks across the whole computation (not just local state transitions)
- **Space efficient**: Maintains prover space efficiency comparable to IVC despite proving global properties

> This makes RCG well-suited for private smart contract execution where global constraints (like databus consistency) must be verified across all circuits.

Reviewer: I don't think databus is a good example here. It might be better to use something more smart-contract related, like public global state or something

Author: updated

### Circuit Structure

Circuits are accumulated in alternating pairs:

```

> App₀ → Kernel₀ → App₁ → Kernel₁ → ... → Appₙ → Reset → Tail → Hiding

Reviewer: I don't know whether it would complicate things without adding much, but reset can happen at any given point, not just at the end

```

- **App circuits**: User-defined private functions
- **Kernel circuits**: Contain recursive verification logic for previous app and kernel
- **Reset kernel**: First of three trailing kernels
- **Tail kernel**: Adds ZK protections for op queue beginning

> - **Hiding kernel**: Final kernel with full ZK protections, proven using MegaZK

Reviewer: We have never spoken about MegaZK or Mega, maybe worth mentioning or linking to the code?

Author: added a brief mention at the beginning of the docs. prob can be replaced with the real docs once we have those

### Proof Structure

A Chonk proof (`Chonk::Proof`) consists of:

> 1. **Mega proof**: ZK proof of the hiding circuit which recursively verifies:

Reviewer: Hiding circuit vs Hiding kernel, let's pick one (I would go for kernel)

   - **IPA proof**: Inner product argument for ECCVM
   - **Translator proof**: Converts between BN254 and Grumpkin curves

---

## Background: From Naive Recursion to Chonk

*This section explains the motivation behind Chonk's design. Skip if you're familiar with the problem.*

**Assumption**: All circuits have fixed size $N = 2^{21}$ from the verifier's perspective.

### Naive Recursive UltraHonk Verification

In a standard recursive verification setup, each circuit must verify the previous circuit's proof. A Honk verifier performs:

1. **Sumcheck verification**: 21 rounds, each receiving univariate polynomials and computing challenges. Relatively cheap in-circuit.

2. **PCS (Polynomial Commitment Scheme) verification via Shplemini**: This is where the cost explodes. The verifier must:
   - Batch all polynomial commitments into opening claims
   - Run Shplemini to reduce multivariate claims to univariate
   - Perform KZG verification

The commitment batching *can* be slightly optimized to use short scalars (Fiat-Shamir challenges are ~127 bits) but **recursive verifier circuit size exceeds 512K gates** - too large for practical use.

### Adding Goblin: EC Operation Delegation

> Goblin improves this by delegating non-native EC operations to a separate ECCVM circuit. Instead of performing scalar muls directly in-circuit (expensive), we:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Goblin improves the naive approach by delegating non-native EC operations to a separate ECCVM circuit. Instead of performing scalar muls directly in-circuit (expensive), we:
```

1. Record EC operations in an **op queue**
2. Prove correct execution via ECCVM (native Grumpkin operations)
3. Use Translator to bridge BN254 ↔ Grumpkin

**Cost reduction**: EC operations become "free" in the main circuit - just op queue entries. However, each recursive verification still adds significant work to the op queue:

- **55 + 5 short scalar muls** for commitment batching (using ~127-bit challenges) - `NUM_UNSHIFTED_ENTITIES` + `NUM_SHIFTED_ENTITIES` for MegaFlavor
- **21 full scalar muls** for Shplemini's Gemini fold commitments ($\log N$), which amounts to **42** short scalar muls in ECCVM
- **Merge protocol ops**: Each circuit's op queue subtable must be merged into the global table, requiring additional EC operations

In ECCVM terms, full scalar muls cost ~2× the rows of short scalar muls. So each recursive verification effectively adds **~100+ ECCVM ops**.

Note: The Merge protocol's ECCVM cost is present in both the naive Goblin approach and in Chonk - it's inherent to maintaining the op queue across circuits.

> For a chain of $k$ circuits, ECCVM must handle $O(k \cdot$ `NUM_UNSHIFTED_ENTITIES` + `NUM_SHIFTED_ENTITIES`  $+ 2\log N)$ short scalar operations.

Reviewer: Are we missing a parenthesis containing unshifted + shifted?

Author: gh rendering is pretty text{smth_smth}-unfriendly - I wanted to keep it readable and to use the actual names of the constants. seemed like the only reasonable solution

- `NUM_SHIFTED_ENTITIES + 1` short scalar muls (5 + 1 for MegaFlavor) - same for shifted
- A few point additions for evaluation updates

**Total: 62 short scalar multiplications per circuit**, versus 55 short + 21 full in naive/Goblin approaches. Crucially:
- **All operations are short scalar** (challenges are ~127 bits, not 254 bits)
- The **Shplemini MSM is deferred** to the final decider proof - eliminating the $\log N$ full scalar muls per circuit

### Summary: Cost Comparison

| Approach | EC Ops per Circuit | Final MSM Size | Notes |
|----------|-------------------|----------------|-------|
| Naive Recursive | 55 + 21 full scalar muls | 78 | Circuit > 512K gates |
| Goblin (no folding) | 60 short + 21 full (op queue) | >102 short | ~100 ECCVM rows/circuit |
| **Chonk (HyperNova + Goblin)** | 62 short scalar muls (op queue) | N/A (deferred) | Shplemini deferred to decider |

Combining `UltraHonk` features such as custom gates with databus mechanism enabling inter-circuit communication with Hypernova sumcheck-based folding boosted by Goblin elliptic curve operation deferral protocol we get a client-friendly RCG that can be run on a mobile phone.

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---
```

## Components

### HyperNova Folding

Chonk uses [HyperNova](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/573) for folding circuits into accumulators. Each circuit goes through Sumcheck to produce evaluation claims, which are batched into an accumulator. The `MultilinearBatchingSumcheck` protocol combines accumulators at different evaluation points into a single accumulator at a common point.

See [HyperNova Folding Details](#hypernova-folding-details) for the full protocol specification.

### Goblin (ECCVM + Translator)

Goblin handles non-native EC operations by deferring them to an op queue, then proving correct execution via:
- **ECCVM**: Proves EC operations on the Grumpkin curve (see [ECCVM README](../eccvm/README.md))
- **Translator**: Bridges BN254 ↔ Grumpkin field elements

### Merge Protocol

Each circuit produces a subtable of ECC operations that must be merged into the global op queue. The Merge protocol proves this was done correctly.

**What it proves:** For each of 4 wire columns $j$:

> $$M_j(X) = L_j(X) + X^k \cdot R_j(X)$$

Reviewer: Do we want to mention the degree check or link the Merge docs?

Author: linked merge docs

**Multiple columns**: Each bus column (calldata, secondary_calldata, return_data) has separate subrelations, distinguished by column-specific selectors $q_j$.

#### Population

The databus columns are populated from ACIR constraints generated by the Noir compiler. When a Noir program uses `call_data` or `return_data` intrinsics, the compiler generates `BlockConstraint` operations that:
1. Initialize the databus columns with witness values via `set_values()`
2. Create read gates connecting main circuit wires to databus columns
3. Assert equality between computed values and databus entries

#### Data Flow

```
App₀ ──return_data [R'₀]──┐
                          ↓
                    Kernel₀ ←─calldata─── (empty for first kernel)
                      │
                return_data [R₀]
                      ↓
App₁ ──return_data [R'₁]──┐
                          ↓
                    Kernel₁ ←─calldata [C₁]─── Kernel₀.return_data
                            ←─secondary_calldata [C'₁]─── App₁.return_data
                      │
                return_data [R₁]
                      ↓
                    ...
```

#### Inter-Circuit Consistency Protocol

> The key insight: circuit $K_{i+1}$ verifies the data transfer between $K_{i-1}$ and $K_i$. It has access to $[R_{i-1}]$ through public inputs and $[C_i]$ through the proof $\pi_i$.

Reviewer: We should explicitly write that $\pi_i'$ is the proof of folding the i-th app.

**Kernel $K_0$** (first kernel):
- Initializes $C'_0 = R'_0$ (from App₀)
- Produces return data $R_0$
- Extracts $\pi'_0.[R'_0]$, adds to $\pi_0.pub\_inputs$
- $\pi_0$ contains: $[R_0]$, $[C'_0]$

**Kernel $K_1$**:
- Sets $C_1 = R_0$ and $C'_1 = R'_1$ (private inputs)

> - Produces $R_1$ with connections to $C_1$, $C'_1$ via lookup constraints

Reviewer: This phrase is misleading, it makes it look like $R_1$ is simply a subset of $C_1 \cup C_1'$. $R_1$ is a function of $C_1$ and $C_1'$ and possibly other stuff.

Author: thx, expanded!

- **Checks**: $\pi_0.[C'_0] = \pi_0.pub\_inputs.[R'_0]$
- Extracts $\pi_0.[R_0]$ and $\pi'_1.[R'_1]$, adds to $\pi_1.pub\_inputs$
- $\pi_1$ contains: $[C_1]$, $[C'_1]$, $[R_1]$

**Kernel $K_i$** (general case, $i \geq 2$):
- Sets $C_i = R_{i-1}$ and $C'_i = R'_i$ (private inputs)
- Produces $R_i$ with connections to $C_i$, $C'_i$
- **Checks**:
  - $\pi_{i-1}.[C_{i-1}] = \pi_{i-1}.pub\_inputs.[R_{i-2}]$ (kernel chain)
  - $\pi_{i-1}.[C'_{i-1}] = \pi_{i-1}.pub\_inputs.[R'_{i-1}]$ (app input)
- Extracts $\pi_{i-1}.[R_{i-1}]$ and $\pi'_i.[R'_i]$, adds to $\pi_i.pub\_inputs$
- $\pi_i$ contains: $[C_i]$, $[C'_i]$, $[R_i]$

> **Final Kernel $K_n$** (cap circuit):

Reviewer: $K_n$ also adds the commitment to the return data of $K_{n-1}$ to its public inputs. It might be worth adding $K_{n-1}$ (tail) and then $K_n$ (hiding)

---

## Usage

### Initialization

```cpp
Chonk ivc(num_circuits);  // num_circuits must be even
```

### Circuit Accumulation

For each circuit (alternating app/kernel):

```cpp
// Build your circuit
MegaCircuitBuilder circuit;
// ... add constraints ...

// Get or compute verification key
auto vk = precomputed_vk;  // or compute from circuit

// Accumulate
ivc.accumulate(circuit, vk);
```

During accumulation:
1. Circuit is folded into the prover accumulator using HyperNova
2. A folding proof is generated and added to the verification queue
3. Goblin processes any EC operations via the op queue

### Kernel Circuit Completion

Kernels must call `complete_kernel_circuit_logic` after adding user logic:

```cpp
MegaCircuitBuilder kernel;
// ... add kernel constraints ...

// Add recursive verification and databus checks
ivc.complete_kernel_circuit_logic(kernel);

ivc.accumulate(kernel, kernel_vk);
```

This adds:
- Recursive verification of previous app and kernel proofs
- Databus consistency checks between circuits
- Merge proof verification

### Stdlib Queue Instantiation

Before kernel logic, convert native queue to stdlib:

> ```cpp

Reviewer: This line doesn't add much in my opinion: we have never talked about the verification queue before.

Author: agreed

    Commitment non_shifted_commitment;   // [p]
    Commitment shifted_commitment;       // [p_shifted]
};
```

### Folding Operations

**1. Instance to Accumulator** - Convert a circuit instance into an initial accumulator:

```cpp
HypernovaFoldingProver prover(transcript);
auto accumulator = prover.instance_to_accumulator(instance, honk_vk);
```

**2. Fold** - Combine an accumulator with a new instance:

```cpp
auto [folding_proof, folded_accumulator] = prover.fold(accumulator, incoming_instance);
```

The fold operation:

1. **Convert instance to accumulator**: Run Sumcheck on the incoming instance to produce an incoming accumulator claim

2. **Batch the two accumulators**: Use `MultilinearBatchingProver` to fold:
   - Constructs a circuit with 4 witness columns and 2 "evaluation" columns:
     - `w_non_shifted_accumulator`, `w_non_shifted_instance` - batched polynomials
     - `w_shifted_accumulator`, `w_shifted_instance` - batched shifted polynomials
     - `w_evaluations_accumulator` = $\text{eq}(X, r_{\text{acc}})$
     - `w_evaluations_instance` = $\text{eq}(X, r_{\text{inst}})$

   - Runs Sumcheck on the batching relation which checks:

>    $$\sum_X p_{\text{acc}}(X) \cdot \text{eq}(X, r_{\text{acc}}) = v_{\text{acc}}$$

Reviewer: Maybe we should specify that the same is over the hypercube

Author: done

   $$\sum_X p_{\text{inst}}(X) \cdot \text{eq}(X, r_{\text{inst}}) = v_{\text{inst}}$$

   This verifies that the claimed evaluations match the polynomials at the respective challenge points.

3. **Compute folded claim**: Generate batching challenge $\gamma$ and compute:

$$p_{\text{new}} = p_{\text{inst}} + \gamma \cdot p_{\text{acc}}$$

$$[p_{\text{new}}] = [p_{\text{inst}}] + \gamma \cdot [p_{\text{acc}}]$$

$$v_{\text{new}} = v_{\text{inst}} + \gamma \cdot v_{\text{acc}}$$

   (Same formulas apply to shifted polynomials)

4. **Output**: Folding proof (Sumcheck univariates + evaluations) and new accumulator

### Verification

The verifier mirrors the prover operations:

```cpp
HypernovaFoldingVerifier<Flavor> verifier(transcript);

// Convert instance to verifier accumulator
auto [success, verifier_accumulator] = verifier.instance_to_accumulator(instance, proof);

// Verify folding proof
auto [sumcheck1_valid, sumcheck2_valid, folded_accumulator] =
    verifier.verify_folding_proof(incoming_instance, folding_proof);
```

### Final Decider

After all folding, the `HypernovaDeciderProver` produces a final proof:

```cpp

> HypernovaDeciderProver decider_prover(transcript);

Reviewer: This might be a good place to talk about transcript sharing and the security

HonkProof decider_proof = decider_prover.construct_proof(commitment_key, accumulator);
```

The decider consists of:

1. **Shplemini**: Multivariate-to-univariate reduction using Gemini folding
2. **KZG opening proof**: Proves the final univariate evaluation claim

The decider proof is verified recursively in the hiding kernel.

---

## Reference

### Type Aliases

| Alias | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `Flavor` | `MegaFlavor` - the underlying Honk flavor |
| `ClientCircuit` | `MegaCircuitBuilder` - circuit builder type |
| `ProverAccumulator` | HyperNova prover accumulator |
| `VerifierAccumulator` | HyperNova verifier accumulator |
| `RecursiveFlavor` | `MegaRecursiveFlavor_<MegaCircuitBuilder>` |
| `PairingPoints` | Accumulated pairing check points |

### QUEUE_TYPE

> | Type | Description |

Reviewer: These types are used in two places: `accumulate` and `complete_kernel_logic`. Maybe we should stress the meaning of the types in those two places:
- When we use them in `accumulate` it means we are accumulating the circuit corresponding to the type (so if `HN_TAIL` is encountered it means we are accumulating the tail circuit).
- When we use them in `complete_kernel_logic` it means we are completing the logic for that circuit type (so if `HN_TAIL` is encountered it means we are completing the logic of the tail kernel, not verifying it).

- **Low memory proving**: Proofs can be generated on a phone or browser
- **Efficient recursion**: Proofs can incorporate many layers of recursion, as contract execution naturally involves function calls to other functions

Efficient recursion supports low memory proving - statements can be decomposed via recursion into smaller statements that require less prover memory.

## Design Principles

CHONK builds on [PlonK](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/953), sharing its foundation:
- Elliptic curves and pairings
- Circuit constraints via selector polynomials and copy constraints

Its deviations from PlonK are motivated by the goals above:

1. **Proving sequences of circuits**: Contract execution translates to multiple circuits (different contract functions), with Aztec's *Kernel circuits* handling bookkeeping between them. See the [Aztec documentation](https://docs.aztec.network) and [Stackproofs paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1281).

2. **Sumcheck instead of univariate quotienting**: Eliminates FFTs, reducing prover time and memory at the expense of proof length. This approach follows [HyperPlonk](https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1355).

> 3. **Folding schemes**: Enable cheaper recursion than standard recursive proofs. We use sumcheck-based folding similar to [HyperNova](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/573), well-suited for folding non-uniform PlonK circuits.

Reviewer 2: well-suited for -> but adapted to

(currently sounds like the hypernova paper already does plonk)

5. **Mega flavor**: Chonk circuits use [MegaFlavor](../flavor/mega_flavor.hpp), which combines UltraHonk's custom gates with Goblin's ECC op queue. [MegaZKFlavor](../flavor/mega_zk_flavor.hpp) is the ZK variant, used for the final [hiding kernel](#circuit-structure) proof.

*For a video presentation, see [this talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6wlamEPKlE).*

---

## Overview

Chonk implements Repeated Computation with Global state (RCG) as defined in the [Stackproofs paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1281). It combines HyperNova folding with Goblin to produce a single succinct proof.

### RCG vs IVC

> Unlike Incrementally Verifiable Computation (IVC), RCG:

Reviewer 2: RCG -> RCG has the following properties  ?

### Proof Structure

A Chonk proof (`Chonk::Proof`) consists of:

1. **Mega proof**: ZK proof of the Hiding kernel which recursively verifies:
   - The final HyperNova folding proof
   - The decider proof

2. **Goblin proof**: Contains sub-proofs for efficient EC operations:
   - **Merge proof**: Proves correct merging of op queue tables
   - **ECCVM proof**: Proves correctness of EC operations (see [ECCVM README](../eccvm/README.md))
   - **IPA proof**: Inner product argument for ECCVM
   - **Translator proof**: Converts between BN254 and Grumpkin curves

---

## Background: From Naive Recursion to Chonk

*This section explains the motivation behind Chonk's design. Skip if you're familiar with the problem.*

**Assumption**: All circuits have fixed size $N = 2^{21}$ from the verifier's perspective.

### Naive Recursive UltraHonk Verification

In a standard recursive verification setup, each circuit must verify the previous circuit's proof. A Honk verifier performs:

1. **Sumcheck verification**: 21 rounds, each receiving univariate polynomials and computing challenges. Relatively cheap in-circuit.

> 2. **PCS (Polynomial Commitment Scheme) verification via Shplemini**: This is where the cost explodes. The verifier must:

Reviewer 2: I would recommend adding this link somewhere as a description of shplemini 
https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/1793.pdf#6

Author: done

|--------|---------|
| `calldata` | Input from previous kernel's return data ($C_i$) |
| `secondary_calldata` | Input from previous app's return data ($C'_i$) |
| `return_data` | Output to be consumed by next circuit ($R_i$) |

App circuits only produce `return_data` (no calldata). Kernel circuits receive both:
- `calldata` from the previous kernel's return data
- `secondary_calldata` from the corresponding app's return data

#### Lookup Relations

Values are read from databus columns using a log-derivative lookup argument. This allows dynamic indexing—circuit logic can access `databus[witness_index]` where the index itself is a witness value.

For a bus column $b$ with read counts $a$, read selector $q_{busread}$, and wires $(w_1, w_2)$ representing (value, index), the lookup identity is:

$$\sum_{i=0}^{n-1}\frac{a_i}{b_i + i\beta + \gamma} - \frac{q_{busread,i}}{w_{1,i} + w_{2,i}\beta + \gamma} = 0$$

In practice, we precompute an inverse polynomial $I$ where:

$$I_i = \frac{1}{(b_i + i\beta + \gamma)(w_{1,i} + w_{2,i}\beta + \gamma)}$$

This allows expressing the lookup as two subrelations:

1. **Inverse correctness** (only checked where $a_i \neq 0$ or $q_{busread,i} = 1$):

> $$I_i \cdot (b_i + i\beta + \gamma)(w_{1,i} + w_{2,i}\beta + \gamma) - is\_active_i = 0$$

Reviewer 2: _active->_{active}

1. Initialize the databus columns with witness values via `set_values()`
2. Create read gates connecting main circuit wires to databus columns
3. Assert equality between computed values and databus entries

#### Data Flow

```
App₀ ──return_data [R'₀]──┐
                          ↓
                    Kernel₀ ←─calldata─── (empty for first kernel)
                      │
                return_data [R₀]
                      ↓
App₁ ──return_data [R'₁]──┐
                          ↓
                    Kernel₁ ←─calldata [C₁]─── Kernel₀.return_data
                            ←─secondary_calldata [C'₁]─── App₁.return_data
                      │
                return_data [R₁]
                      ↓
                    ...
```

#### Inter-Circuit Consistency Protocol

**Notation**: $\pi_i$ denotes the proof of folding the $i$-th kernel, and $\pi'_i$ denotes the proof of folding the $i$-th app.

The key insight: circuit $K_{i+1}$ verifies the data transfer between $K_{i-1}$ and $K_i$. It has access to $[R_{i-1}]$ through public inputs and $[C_i]$ through the proof $\pi_i$.

**Kernel $K_0$** (first kernel):
- Initializes $C'_0 = R'_0$ (from App₀)
- Produces return data $R_0$

> - Extracts $\pi'_0.[R'_0]$, adds to $\pi_0.\text{pub_inputs}$

Reviewer 2: can't use _ inside \text{} causing no render

Reviewer 2: same in several places below
